they're calling it The Maritime Corridor
announced by the EU with its Partners
it's supposed to be one solution to
alleviate what can only be described as
a looming famine we are launching this
Cypress Maritime Corridor together
Cyprus the European Union the United
Arab Emirates and the United States and
it is your Relentless work to get this
Corridor up and running despite all the
challenges and this is truly
inspiring but it's not enough and
nowhere near efficient enough to get the
massive amount of Aid needed for 2.3
million Palestinians trapped in the
strip hundreds of trucks carrying
crucial Aid remain stranded in Egypt but
Israel is ignoring calls to reopen land
Crossings into the strip the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees says moving Aid
by land is the most effective route it's
so easy there are several Crossing
points that can
the state of Israel with the Gaza Strip
This is what we used before the war
started on the 7th of October uh when
there was a regular flow of about 500
trucks every day including Commercial
Supplies so it shouldn't be uh
complicated at all when there is a
political will there is a way the
maritime Corridor is far from easy it's
got to get the Aid off the boat now
there's no functioning port in Gaza so
that's another logistical uh challenge
is then going to get onto trucks and
into distribution centers that won't
happen overnight something the British
foreign minister referenced in a comment
it's going to take time to build so the
crucial thing is today the Israelis must
confirm that they'll open the port at
ashdod that is in Israel but that's a
working Port it could take aid now that
would increase the amount of Aid and
that Aid can then be driven into Gaza
that would make a real difference and we
need to make a real difference right now
that that comment raised eyebrows as the
whole point of the maritime Corridor is
to get Aid directly into the
strip for now bad weather has hampered
the boat from sailing from lanica it
remains in Port very much a symbol of
vital Aid
stuck but even when it sails it won't be
enough and even if it's successful
scaling up to meet the needs of people
who are facing a man-made famine is
highly unlikely Imran Khan aler
lanica make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer